README.md, before:

# Python Programs Collection

This repository contains a collection of simple Python programs for basic mathematical and logical operations, along with corresponding test cases.

## List of Programs

### 1. `math_operations.py`
Performs addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division on two numbers.  
Includes a test class with 100 diverse test datasets.

### 2. `string_concatenate.py`
Concatenates two input strings and displays the result.

### 3. `prime_check.py`
Checks if a given number is prime using an efficient method.  
Includes a test class covering various edge cases and scenarios.

### 4. `mcm_lcm.py`
Calculates the GCD (MCD) and LCM of two given numbers.

### 5. `fibonacci_series.py`
Generates the Fibonacci series up to a user-specified number of terms.  
Includes a test class to verify correctness for various input cases.

### 6. `roots_calculator.py`
Calculates the square root and cube root of a single number or a sequence of numbers entered by the user.

### 7. `compare_characters.py`
Compares two characters and displays the numerical (Unicode) value of the larger character.  
Includes a test class for validation.

### 8. `binary_search.py`
Implements binary search on a sorted list without using any built-in search libraries.  
Includes a test class with multiple test cases for different scenarios (target present, absent, edge cases, duplicates, etc.).

---

## How to Run

1. **Clone the repository** or download the files.
2. **Navigate to the project directory** in your terminal:
   ```
   cd c:\codes\june25
   ```
3. **Run any program** using Python:
   ```
   python filename.py
   ```
   Replace `filename.py` with the desired script name.

---

## Testing

Some scripts include built-in test classes.  
To run tests, simply execute the script; tests will run before user input is requested.

---

## Requirements

- Python 3.x

No external libraries are required.

---

## Author

Created as a collection of beginner-friendly Python programs

Commit message:

Add code for parentheses validation with test cases

README.md, after:

# Python Programs Collection

This repository contains a collection of simple Python programs for basic mathematical and logical operations, along with corresponding test cases.

## List of Programs

### 1. `math_operations.py`
Performs addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division on two numbers.  
Includes a test class with 100 diverse test datasets.

### 2. `string_concatenate.py`
Concatenates two input strings and displays the result.

### 3. `prime_check.py`
Checks if a given number is prime using an efficient method.  
Includes a test class covering various edge cases and scenarios.

### 4. `mcm_lcm.py`
Calculates the GCD (MCD) and LCM of two given numbers.

### 5. `fibonacci_series.py`
Generates the Fibonacci series up to a user-specified number of terms.  
Includes a test class to verify correctness for various input cases.

### 6. `roots_calculator.py`
Calculates the square root and cube root of a single number or a sequence of numbers entered by the user.

### 7. `compare_characters.py`
Compares two characters and displays the numerical (Unicode) value of the larger character.  
Includes a test class for validation.

### 8. `binary_search.py`
Implements binary search on a sorted list without using any built-in search libraries.  
Includes a test class with multiple test cases for different scenarios (target present, absent, edge cases, duplicates, etc.).

### 9. `parentheses_validator.py`
Checks if a string contains a valid sequence of parentheses (supports (), {}, []).  
Includes a test class with multiple test cases for valid and invalid scenarios.

---

## How to Run

1. **Clone the repository** or download the files.
2. **Navigate to the project directory** in your terminal:
   ```
   cd c:\codes\june25
   ```
3. **Run any program** using Python:
   ```
   python filename.py
   ```
   Replace `filename.py` with the desired script name.

---

## Testing

Some scripts include built-in test classes.  
To run tests, simply execute the script; tests will run before user input is requested.

---

## Requirements

- Python 3.x

No external libraries are required.

---

## Author

Created as a collection of beginner-friendly Python programs
